We've pushed our code to Heroku but we get error message when we open our app in our browser. This because
we still have a couple of things to do.
The first one we need to create a database for our production
app. Heroku provides different  cloud databases
such as posgre and mysql via
add-on. To create mysql database we need
cleardb  mysql addon. This addon is free for
limited 5 megabyte database size and 10 database
connections and we also need to supply our credit card
even if we choose free plan. If you never mind then
you can install that addon by running this command
heroku addon colon create cleardb colon ignite.
Or an alternative way is to use postgre database
via heroku-postgresql addon.
This addon is also free and we don't need to supply
our credit card. To do that we can say heroku addon
colon create heroku dash postgresql
colon hobby dash dev.
So basically the left side is the adon's name and
the right side is kind of a plan that we'll be using
in this case I'll be making use this heroku-postgresql:hobby-dev.
Alright now we have database created in the cloud.
The next thing that we need to do is to configure the
credentials of our newly created database in our production app. Please note in the output here that
Heroku created config variables called database URL. To
see its value we can call heroku config colon get database
URL.
Here we can see the full URL of our database. Now
in Laravel application instead of database URL
we need config variables such as db host, db port, db database, db username and db password. So how
can we set them from this URL? Well we can
extract the values from this database URL by
following this form
if you're using mysql database the URL's form will
be similar like this. A<ll right let's set up these
values into our new config variables.